this video The video in which we are going to talk is syllabus of Operating System. Now you must be thinking that syllabus of Operating System is already available in many places. If you want to download syllabus of Operating System of a particular university, for GATE exam or for UGC-NET exam, it will be easily available for you. But what is the main motive of making this video? First, I am giving you clear cut information that if you are preparing operating system for GATE or UGC-NET, then which topic is mandatory, means you have to do it, and which topic you can see from little above. So what is the benefit of this? First, those people who study very late, means when they start studying little before exam, then it is very beneficial for them. Even those who are studying properly, this video is very beneficial for them. Because in this video I am going to cover all the topics, where the main topic and what are the subtopics in them. And all the topics we are making in this video are based on questions. All the questions that have come in last years, whether in GATE exam or in UGC-NET exam, because somewhere their pattern of questions is same. Sometimes in UGC-NET exam GATE questions come, sometimes in GATE exam questions are repeated but with a different language. So this is why this video is very important here. Second point here is SMART WORK. As we know that hard work is very important, but along with hard work, smart work is also very important. If you remember at this time, according to the latest Forbes report, the number one rich man in the world is Amazon's head. So that guy, Amazon's head, see how smart work that guy did. Neither does he have any industries, in which he is making things, making shoes or making apparel, many things whatever he is selling on online website or in application. But despite that, his total wealth, all those billionaires, in which India's Mukesh Ambani comes, there are many other billionaires, so he left them behind. So that is a smart work. Hard work is there, along with that is smart work. Without any industry, without any big investment, they are just sending things from here to there. And this thing is called smart work. So we are implementing the same smart work here. So the first topic is basic introduction. So what comes here in basic introduction? Definition of normal operating system, along with definition of operating system, types of operating system. In types of operating system, batch operating system, multi-program, multi-tasking operating system, real time, you should know that. After that I get process diagram here. Means when we execute a process, when CPU executes a process, then from which stages that process passes. Apart from that what comes here? I have types of operating system and apart from process diagram, here basic system call, definition of system calls, in that comes your fork system call and apart from that, means basic kernel and fork, you should know about all these system calls. But here the main important point is process diagram. Means the stages of process, that is very important point. And after that I get process scheduling, which we can also call CPU scheduling. So in scheduling, many various algorithms come and this whole topic is important. In this I can't say that this particular thing is important, this whole topic is important. In this there are different algorithms, FIFO is there, SGF, shortest job, first, pre-emptive is there, your round robin is there, different algorithms come, priority is there. So this portion is very important because every year there will be a question in GATE and UGCNET from this topic. So this topic is mandatory for you. Means this topic has to be done and it is very easy. If you have done one or two numerical for this, then definitely you can solve this easily. Process synchronization, third comes process synchronization. In this concept of semaphore comes, concept of semaphore, binary semaphore specially. Concept of binary semaphore comes in this, that only you have to do because that is the most important part. Other than this there is Peterson's solution, basic you should know that how processes are synchronized. But here question comes from the concept of semaphore. This topic is little complex, but if you see this properly, then definitely you will be clear in this that how this semaphore actually works. So in this topic of semaphore, I will say that it is mandatory and you have to do it. Next comes deadlock and threads. In deadlock and threads, the deadlock portion is very easy. Basic definition, deadlock prevention, deadlock avoidance and specially in this comes Banker's algorithm. You should know how Banker's algorithm works, it is very easy. You can check my videos for this. There I have explained this with very good examples, even with gate questions only. So you have to do Banker's algorithm here. Other than this, basic questions also I have mentioned in my videos on deadlock. This topic is totally completed in my video, process synchronization also, process scheduling also and basic also, this is already covered. Then memory management. In memory management, we have specially concept of paging, concept of segmentation and apart from this, fragmentation. Many times questions come on internal and external fragmentation. So you have to do this portion only. Although there is a concept of multi-level paging also and segmentation with paging, that is a little complex topic. If you have time, you are preparing properly for it, then definitely do that portion also, multi-level paging, segmented paging etc. But if you are looking normally, then for that you have to do basic paging, how does segmentation work? Types of fragmentation. And apart from that, here comes the concept of virtual memory. Do do the concept of virtual memory. In this, your questions also come, numerical questions also come. In numerical question, it will be given to you that time is given, effective memory access time is to be taken out, related to that numericals come. Basic of threshing you should know. And apart from this, the very important point is page replacement algos. Page replacement algos. I would definitely like to highlight this here because why is this important? Because this is a very easy topic. Absolutely, if you have done 1-2 questions in this, then you will never do it wrong. So that's why this portion and every year questions are coming from this. Easy and questions are also coming, then obviously you have to secure. Because if I say the exam of GATE, then how many number of questions I am attempting there, that is not important. How many number of correct questions I am attempting, that is important. Means correctness is important there. There is no negative marking in UGCNET yet, so you can take a little risk there. But here definitely you have to go to correctness first so that if my incase is wrong, then negative marking in GATE exam is very annoying. After page replacement algos comes your disk scheduling. In disk scheduling also we have this numerical portion, this can also be called numerical kind of. And in this comes disk scheduling. In this also we have scan algorithm, C-scan algorithm. One basic FCFS and one basic algorithms, I have already made videos on this also, so you can cover these videos. I have explained each question in all, you can practice it there. After disk scheduling comes Unix commands. This portion comes more in UGCNET as compared to the GATE exam. But still this thing can be covered in GATE exam also. Unix command or basic Linux commands also comes. Like there is LS command, MKDIR, CD, there are many commands, means I am here, but basic commands, whatever there are, there is CD command, there is CHMOD command. Now recently in July exam, July 2018 exam of UGCNET, in that question has come on it. And apart from this you should know about open system call. Apart from open system call, means you should know about system calls related to files, what are their parameters, you should know that. So this question can come about basic Linux commands, although this question hasn't come much in GATE, but this portion is very important for UGCNET.